Instructions for Compiling PEST++ on Linux and MacOS
====================================================

Last updated : 12/10/2015

Introduction
------------
The Windows version of PEST++ supports the serial, YAMR and GENIE run managers,
however GENIE is not available under Linux so the Linux version of PEST++
only supports the serial and YAMR run managers.  The PEST++ input instructions
located at [`http://www.inversemodeler.org/downloads/pest++_input.pdf']
provides a quick summary of the run mangers as well as the command line
arguments necessary to invoke them. 

Dependencies:

1. gcc, g++ and gfortran 6.2.0 or newer:  PEST++ relies on some newer features
   of C++11 standard which are only supported in these newer releases.

2. blas

3. lapack


Instructions to build PEST++ on Linux
-------------------------------------
1. In the ./src directory execute the following command to delete any files
   associated with a previous build:

      make  -f  makefile_linux clean

2. Build PEST++ in the ./src directory using the following command:

      make  -f  makefile_linux

This creates the PEST++ executables:

      ./programs/pestpp-pso/psopp
      ./programs/gsa/gsa
      ./programs/pest++/pestpp


Instructions to build PEST++ on MacOS
-------------------------------------
Building PEST++ on mac is very similar to building on Linux: GCC 5 or greater
with associated GFORTRAN.  However, since mac discourages static linking,
a slightly different makefile (makefile_macports) is needed.  

The easiest way to get going on a mac is to use macports
(https://www.macports.org/)  to install GCC 5:

    >>> sudo port install gcc5 +gfortran

This will get everything you need.  Then it is as simple as:

    >>> make –f makefile_macports clean
    >>> make –f makefile_macports

This will clean and then build PEST++ and yield an app named pestpp.  The key
to 'makefile_macports' is pointing to the location of the GCC (and GFORTRAN)
libraries.  For GCC5 on MAC OSX 10.10.4, the libraries are located in
/opt/local/lib/gcc5.  If this is different on your machine, you will need to
replace all the occurrences of /opt/local/lib/gcc5 with the correct location of
the GCC libraries.  
